README.md, before:

# CE9 CapStone Project

# aws-eks-devops-capstone

# Setup

## Create Environment (dev)
```
gh api --method PUT -H "Accept: application/vnd.github+json" /repos/aalimsee/aws-eks-devops-capstone/environments/dev
```

## Create Actions Secrets
```
gh secret set AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID -b"xxx" -r aalimsee/aws-eks-devops-capstone --env dev
gh secret set AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -b"xxx" -r aalimsee/aws-eks-devops-capstone --env dev
```

## Create a private Amazon ECR repository
```
aws ecr create-repository \
  --repository-name ce-grp-1/product-service \
  --image-scanning-configuration scanOnPush=true \
  --region us-east-1

aws ecr create-repository \
  --repository-name ce-grp-1/react-frontend \
  --image-scanning-configuration scanOnPush=true \
  --region us-east-1  
```

## How to check if app running

```
aws eks list-clusters --region us-east-1
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name ce-grp-1-dev-eks-cluster --region us-east-1

kubectl config current-context
kubectl get nodes

kubectl get pods -n dev
kubectl get deployments -n dev

kubectl get svc -n dev
kubectl apply -f service.yaml

```

# Local Developer Command for Consistency Check
Developers can run this locally before pushing:
```
cd frontend
cp package-lock.json package-lock.bak
npm install --package-lock-only --ignore-scripts
diff package-lock.json package-lock.bak && echo "✅ In sync" || echo "❌ Out of sync"
```

# Fix the Issue
Here’s what to do locally:
```
cd frontend
rm package-lock.json
npm install
```

This will regenerate a clean and in-sync package-lock.json file using what's declared in package.json.

# Attached IGW to VPC
vpc-0c722a730b6fb8216 / aws-eks-devops-capstone-vpc
igw-0308f6f88d5d2c7fa / aws-eks-devops-capstone-igw

```
aws ec2 attach-internet-gateway --vpc-id "vpc-0c722a730b6fb8216" --internet-gateway-id "igw-0308f6f88d5d2c7fa" --region us-east-1
```

# Screenshots
![Backend page](images/product-service.png)
![Frontend page](images/react-frontend.png)



# Backup codes
./frontend/.env

# URL to be update with current backend LB
# REACT_APP_API_URL=http://<your-backend-LB-URL>
# need to find way(s) to automatic URL importing
REACT_APP_API_URL=http://aa81c36249b744843b6745da0799199c-1469172292.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com/

# Add user access
```kubectl edit configmap aws-auth -n kube-system
```

format (pending Huang's username)
```  mapUsers: |
    - userarn: arn:aws:iam::255945442255:user/aalimsee_ce9
      username: aalimsee_ce9
      groups:
        - system:masters
    - userarn: arn:aws:iam::255945442255:user/lukej-ce9
      username: lukej-ce9
      groups:
        - system:masters
    - userarn: arn:aws:iam::255945442255:user/clifford_ce9
      username: clifford_ce9
      groups:
        - system:masters
    - userarn: arn:aws:iam::255945442255:user/azni_ce9
      username: azni_ce9
      groups:
        - system:masters
    - userarn: arn:aws:iam::255945442255:user/dhts1990
      username: azni_ce9
      groups:
        - system:masters
```

# Verify user access
```
aws sts get-caller-identity                   
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name dev-eks-cluster --region us-east-1
kubectl get nodes
```

Commit message:

update readme with setup steps

README.md, after:

# CE-GRP-1 CapStone Project
Cohort 9 - CE9

# Setup infra
1. Attached the igw to vpc
2. Create ECR for application image


# aws-eks-devops-capstone

# Setup

## Create Environment (dev)
```
gh api --method PUT -H "Accept: application/vnd.github+json" /repos/aalimsee/aws-eks-devops-capstone/environments/dev
```

## Create Actions Secrets
```
gh secret set AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID -b"xxx" -r aalimsee/aws-eks-devops-capstone --env dev
gh secret set AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -b"xxx" -r aalimsee/aws-eks-devops-capstone --env dev
```

## Create a private Amazon ECR repository
```
aws ecr create-repository \
  --repository-name ce-grp-1/product-service \
  --image-scanning-configuration scanOnPush=true \
  --region us-east-1

aws ecr create-repository \
  --repository-name ce-grp-1/react-frontend \
  --image-scanning-configuration scanOnPush=true \
  --region us-east-1  
```

## How to check if app running

```
aws eks list-clusters --region us-east-1
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name ce-grp-1-dev-eks-cluster --region us-east-1

kubectl config current-context
kubectl get nodes

kubectl get pods -n dev
kubectl get deployments -n dev

kubectl get svc -n dev
kubectl apply -f service.yaml

```

# Local Developer Command for Consistency Check
Developers can run this locally before pushing:
```
cd frontend
cp package-lock.json package-lock.bak
npm install --package-lock-only --ignore-scripts
diff package-lock.json package-lock.bak && echo "✅ In sync" || echo "❌ Out of sync"
```

# Fix the Issue
Here’s what to do locally:
```
cd frontend
rm package-lock.json
npm install
```

This will regenerate a clean and in-sync package-lock.json file using what's declared in package.json.

# Attached IGW to VPC
vpc-0c722a730b6fb8216 / aws-eks-devops-capstone-vpc
igw-0308f6f88d5d2c7fa / aws-eks-devops-capstone-igw

```
aws ec2 attach-internet-gateway --vpc-id "vpc-0c722a730b6fb8216" --internet-gateway-id "igw-0308f6f88d5d2c7fa" --region us-east-1
```

# Screenshots
![Backend page](images/product-service.png)
![Frontend page](images/react-frontend.png)



# Backup codes
./frontend/.env

# URL to be update with current backend LB
# REACT_APP_API_URL=http://<your-backend-LB-URL>
# need to find way(s) to automatic URL importing
REACT_APP_API_URL=http://aa81c36249b744843b6745da0799199c-1469172292.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com/

# Add user access
```kubectl edit configmap aws-auth -n kube-system
```

format (pending Huang's username)
```  mapUsers: |
    - userarn: arn:aws:iam::255945442255:user/aalimsee_ce9
      username: aalimsee_ce9
      groups:
        - system:masters
    - userarn: arn:aws:iam::255945442255:user/lukej-ce9
      username: lukej-ce9
      groups:
        - system:masters
    - userarn: arn:aws:iam::255945442255:user/clifford_ce9
      username: clifford_ce9
      groups:
        - system:masters
    - userarn: arn:aws:iam::255945442255:user/azni_ce9
      username: azni_ce9
      groups:
        - system:masters
    - userarn: arn:aws:iam::255945442255:user/dhts1990
      username: azni_ce9
      groups:
        - system:masters
```

# Verify user access
```
aws sts get-caller-identity                   
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name dev-eks-cluster --region us-east-1
kubectl get nodes
```
